hello and welcome to BBC News I'm laqua
buak and we start the program in the
Middle East where Israel's foreign
minister has said a planned ground
assault on the southern Gaza City of
refa could be suspended if a deal
emerges to free the hostages still being
held by Hamas Israel cats said that
their freedom was a top priority hostage
release also forms a key part of
international mediation efforts to bring
about a ceasefire in the Gaza War Hamas
has posted a new video which shows two
of the hostages captured during its
October attack Keith seagull and omry
Miran both identify themselves in the
video whilst it's not dated there is a
reference to the recent Passover holiday
it's the second such video that Hamas
considered a terror group by the UK and
US governments has published in the past
few days our correspondent Anna Foster
sent us this update from T Aviv rry
Moran's father was actually already on
the list of confirmed speakers for this
event tonight when he got up on the
stage he talked about the moment he said
he was sitting having coffee with
someone and talking about his grandchild
when the man that he was talking to held
his phone and said look here's a phot a
video they've released a video of omry
now what was also interesting as the
crowd were gathered here tonight is they
showed that video in full it's not
something that that normally happens
because of course when you see the
people in it the two men in this case
looking very malnourished obviously
speaking under Jess sending messages to
their families and and urging the
Israeli government to come to some sort
of arrangement some sort of deal to try
and achieve their release now of course
that deal and those talks have been
going on for weeks and weeks now the
last time we saw a significant hostage
release was at the end of last year at
at one point we were told the talks had
really very much broken down the two
sides weren't really in communic at all
but the Egyptian delegations visit this
week and the further um efforts of the
US and the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin we're sort of led to believe the
briefings are that perhaps they're
moving slightly closer in terms of
trying to achieve a deal but certainly
those powerful messages that we heard on
the stage tonight from the hostage
families they were talking directly to
Israel's leaders directly to the
politicians and they were saying you
need to do a deal while they're still
alive while we know that our loved ones
are still alive you need to do what they
can to ensure their release now and that
was Anna Foster there the US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin is set to
travel to Saudi Arabia on Monday as
negotiations between Israel and Hamas
remain in limbo this will be his seventh
trip to the Middle East since the War
Began it's part of President Biden's
efforts to encourage a ceasefire and
prevent the conflict from spreading
he'll also call for the release of those
hostages from the October the 7th attack
back Muhammad Taha is from the BBC
Arabic service and he spoke to me
earlier for more on those fragile
hostage
negotiations both parties are putting
massive amount of pressures on the each
party to accept the the hostage deal
with without massive amount of
conditions so the Israel is putting
pressure they are uh intensifying the
military operation they are threatening
of starting the operation in Rafa
overnight we saw 30 people died in
shelling in Middle Gaza and in RAF 10 of
them are children Israel believes that
only military pressure on Hamas would
make them accept the hostage hostage
deal on the other side we saw Hamas
releasing these uh host hostage videos
that urging uh the Israeli government to
accept the uh that that deal and I heard
a clip of Hamas official saying that
Israel want them voluntarily to hand
back the hostages voluntarily to accept
Israel continuing occupying Gaza
voluntarily accepting not having a
permanent ceasefire and the the Hamas
would say why would on Earth we accept
all of this without a perspective of
ending this war so what is Mr blinkin
likely to achieve I mean he's got a big
job as he heads out tomorrow indeed Mr
blinkin in the in his tours as you said
this is the tour number seven is trying
to put this conflict in a wider context
so he is trying to convince the Arab
countries that you know the United
States is committed to the two-state
solution is committed to the the
longterm solution to the Palestinian
cause he's trying to convince Saudi
Arabia to return back to the path of
normalization the relationship with
Israel he's trying to get the wider
perspective and even Hamas announced
last last week that they are willing to
discuss being disarmed if the two State
solution uh um um path would be would be
viable so he is trying to do that Israel
is is only trying to achieve the the two
main aims of this war destroying Hamas
releasing the hostages and the United
States trying to find a longer deal a
long u um term deal for the Palestinian
cause that would give the uh Americans
uh peace of mind for for for amount of
time